As regards the very strange and yet very familiar story that I'm about to put down on paper, I'm neither expecting nor asking for belief. Indeed, I would be mad to expect it in such circumstances where my own senses reject their own evidence.  And yet, I'm not mad; and I'm certainly not dreaming. But tomorrow I will die, and so today I would like to unburden my soul.
First of all my intention is to present to the world, in a clear and precise manner, a series of mere household related events which have terrified, tortured, and destroyed me. Yet, I will not try to explain them.
To me they have presented little but horror though to others they will seem more extravagant and dramatic than horrific. Perhaps in the future someone wiser will give my phantom an ordinary explanation, someone who's mind is calmer, more logical, and far less excitable than my own. A mind which will see only very ordinary causes for the awe inspiring events as related below.
From infancy I was noted for my docile and compassionate character. My gentleness was so conspicuous as to make me the butt of all jokes. I was especially fond of animals, and my parents indulged me by letting me keep a great variety pets. I spent most of my time with these animals, and was never so happy as when feeding and caressing them.
This part of my character grew stronger as I aged, and as an adult it became one of my principal sources of pleasure. To those who have nurtured an affection for a faithful and intelligent dog, I need hardly go to the trouble of explaining the nature nor intensity of the gratification that can be taken from such a relationship. 
There is something in the unselfish and self-sacrificing love given by such dogs which goes directly to the heart of those who have experienced the superficial friendship and flimsy loyalty of other human beings.
I married early on, and was happy to discover that my wife's personality complemented my own. Noticing my partiality for pets, she lost no time at all in getting me some very nice specimens. We had birds, gold-fish, a fine dog, rabbits, a small monkey, and a cat.
Pluto (this was the cat's name) was my favorite pet and playmate. I alone fed him, and he would always be close by wherever I went about the house. Indeed, It was only with great difficulty that I managed to prevent him from following me through the streets.
Our friendship continued like this for several years, during which my general  nature and character had (as a result, I am ashamed to admit, of the abuse of alcohol) experienced a radical change for the worse. I grew, day by day, more moody, more irritable, more regardless of the feelings of others. I let myself talk to my wife like a brute, and over time, I even made her suffer personal violence at my own hand. 
My pets of course were made to feel the change in my personality. I not only neglected but abused them. For Pluto, however, I still retained sufficient regard to stop myself from maltreating him, whereas I made no scruple of maltreating the rabbits, the monkey, or even the dog, when by accident or otherwise, they would come in my way. 
But my disease took over me (for what desease is like alcohol!) and at length even Pluto, who was now becoming old, and consequently somewhat moody, began to experience the ill-effects of my temper.
 
One night, returning home very drunk from one of local bars where I'm a regular visitor, I got it into my head that the cat was avoiding me. I grabbed him, when, frightened at my violence, he slightly wounded my hand with his teeth. The fury of a demon instantly possessed me. I no longer recognized myself. My original soul seemed at once to flee my body, replaced by a fiendish, gin saturated malevolence, which thrilled every part of my being. I took a pen-knife from my waistcoat-pocket, opened it, grasped the poor beast by the throat, and deliberately cut one of its eyes from the socket! I am even shuddering and blushing at writing down the damnable atrocity.
 
When reason returned with the morning (when I had slept off the gin of the night before) I experienced a feeling half of horror, half of remorse, for the crime of which I had been guilty. However, it was at best a feeble and vague feeling; the soul remained untouched. I hit the bottle once more, and soon drowned in wine all memory of the deed.
 
In the meantime the cat slowly recovered. It is true that the socket of the lost eye looked awful, but he no longer appeared to suffer any pain. He went about the house as usual, but, as might be expected, fled in extreme terror at my approach. There was still enough of my old self left in me as to be at first grieved by this evident dislike on the part of a creature which had once loved me so much. But this feeling soon gave way to irritation. And then came, as if to signal my final and irreversible downfall, the spirit of Perverseness. There are no particular schools of thought which recognize this spirit's existence, and yet I rest absolutely convinced that perverseness is one of the primitive impulses of the human heart; one of the indivisible primary emotions of man that steer his behavior. Who has not, a hundred times, found himself committing a vile or a silly action for no other reason than because he knows he should not? Do we not constantly desire, despite our better judgment, to violate that which is Law, merely because we understand it to be such? Indeed, it is this very perverseness which proved to be my undoing.
It was this profound longing of the soul to turn on itself, to violate its own nature, to do wrong simply for the sake of doing wrong, that urged me to continue the cruelty begun against this inoffensive animal. 
One morning, in cold blood, I slipped a noose around its neck and hung it on the branch of a tree; hung it with tears streaming from my eyes, and with the bitterest remorse in my heart; hung it because I knew that it had loved me, and because I felt it had given me no reason to act in such a way; hung it because I knew that in so doing I was committing a sin; a deadly sin that would so jeopardize my immortal soul as to place it beyond even the reach of the infinite mercy of God himself.
 
That very night after the hanging, I was woken by the cry of fire. The curtains of my bedroom were in flames. The whole house was blazing and it was only with great difficulty that myself, my wife and the servant made it out. The destruction was complete. My entire worldly wealth was swallowed up, and as a result despair took over me.
 
When I first saw this apparition (for I could scarcely regard it as otherwise) I was overcome by a sensation of both wonder and terror. But eventually reason saw through. The cat, I remembered, had been hung in a garden adjacent to the house. Once the cry of "fire," had been heard, this garden had been immediately filled by the crowd, and someone within it must have cut down the cat from the tree and thrown it through an open window into my bedroom. This had probably been done with the intention of waking me. After this, the falling of the other walls would have compressed the victim of my cruelty into the freshly spread plaster; the lime of which, with the flames and the ammonia from the carcass, would have then accomplished the portrait that stood before us.
 
Although the logical half of my mind was satisfied with this line of reasoning, the startling events above had nevertheless made a deep impression upon my imagination. For months I could not rid myself of the phantom of the cat, and during this period I almost began to feel remorse. 
I went so far as to regret the loss of the animal, and to keep an eye out among the vile haunts which I now habitually frequented for a replacement pet of the same species appearance.
 
One night, whilst sat down and being half tipsy in a rather dingy drinking establishment, my attention was suddenly drawn to a black object, reposing upon the head of one of the immense barrels of gin which made up the greater part of the furniture of the bar. I had been looking steadily at the top of this barrel for some time, and what now caused me surprise was the fact that I had not sooner noticed the object upon it. I approached it, and touched it with my hand. It was a large black cat, fully as large as Pluto, and closely resembling him in every respect but one. Pluto had not a white hair upon any portion of his body; but this cat had a large, although indefinite splotch of white, covering nearly the whole of its chest region.
 
Upon touching the cat, it immediately arose, purred loudly, rubbed against my hand, and appeared delighted with my attention. This, then, was the very creature I was in search of. I immediately offered to buy the cat but the landlord made no claim to it, nor knew anything of it. In fact, he had never seen it before.
 
I continued to caress it, and when I got ready to go home this cat seemed to want to come with me. I let it do so, occasionally stooping and patting it on the way. When it reached the house it immediately made itself at home, quickly becoming a favorite of my wife.
 
For my own part, I soon started to dislike it. This was just the reverse of what I had hoped for, though I know not why this would be the case. Indeed, its evident fondness for myself rather disgusted and annoyed me. Over time these feelings of disgust and annoyance rose into the bitterness of hatred. 
I avoided the creature; a certain sense of shame, and the memory of my former act of cruelty, preventing me from physically abusing it. For some weeks I did not strike nor otherwise violently abuse it, but very gradually I came to look upon it with unspeakable loathing, and to flee silently from its odious presence as from the victim of a pestilent disease.
 
What added, no doubt, to my hatred of the beast was the discovery, on the morning after I brought it home, that, like Pluto, it also had been deprived of one of its eyes. This fact, however, only endeared it to my wife, whose character, as I have already mentioned, possessed that high level emotional empathy which had once been a distinguishing trait of my own.
 
Nevertheless, the affection the cat showed for me seemed to grow in proportion with my aversion for it. It followed my footsteps with a tenacity difficult believe. Whenever I sat, it would crouch beneath my chair or spring upon my knees, covering me with its loathsome caresses. If I rose to walk it would get between my feet, nearly tripping me up, or, it would climb up to my chest using its long and sharp claws that made themselves felt beneath my clothes.  At such times, although I longed to destroy it with a blow, I would hold myself back, in part due to the memory of my former crime, but mainly (let me confess it at once) by my absolute dread of the beast.
 
This dread was not exactly a dread of physical evil; and yet I am at a loss as to how otherwise define it. I am almost ashamed to admit (yes, even in this jail cell) that the terror and horror that the animal inspired in me had been heightened by the strange phenomenon which I am about to relate below. 
...
My wife had called my attention more than once to the character of the mark of white hair, of which I have spoken, and which constituted the sole visible difference between the strange beast and the one I had destroyed. 
...
The reader will remember that this mark, although large, had been originally very indefinite, but slowly and nearly imperceptibly, (and for which for a long time my reason struggled to reject as figment of my imagination) it had assumed a distinct outline. It was now the representation of an object that I shudder to name, and for this above all I loathed and dreaded, and would have rid myself of the monster had I dared! As I was saying, it was now the image of a hideous and ghastly thing; the Gallows! What terrible contraption of horror, crime, agony and death!
 
And I was now indeed in a wretched state. A mere animal, similar to the one I had I had killed with such contempt, was causing me (as in the human being me, fashioned in the image of God) so much suffering! I could find no peace, whether by day or night! During the former the creature wouldn't leave me a moment alone; and in the latter I would wake on an hourly basis from terrifying nightmares only to find the hot breath of the thing upon my face, and its vast weight bearing down eternally upon my heart!
 
Under such pressure, the feeble remnant of the good within me succumbed. Evil thoughts became my sole intimates; the darkest and most evil of thoughts. My habitual moodiness increased to hatred of all things and of all mankind. And so it was that my patient and uncomplaining and patient wife ended up suffering the sudden and frequent outbursts of fury to which I now blindly abandoned myself.
 
One day she accompanied me on some household task into the cellar. The cat, having followed me, nearly made me fall headlong down the steeps stairs which lead to it; I became furious with rage! 
Raising an ax, and forgetting in my anger the childish fear which up till then had stopped me from harming the cat, I aimed a blow at its head, which of course would have proved instantly fatal had it descended as I wished. But this blow was halted by the hand of my wife. Tipped by this interference into an even more demonic rage more, I withdrew my arm from her grasp and buried the ax in her brain. She fell dead on the spot without a groan.
 
This hideous murder accomplished, I set myself to the task of concealing the body. I knew that I could not remove it from the house, either by day or by night, without the risk of being observed by the neighbors. Many ideas entered my mind. At one point I considered cutting the corpse into tiny fragments and then burning them. At another I resolved to dig a grave for it in the floor of the cellar. Again, I thought about casting it in the well in the yard or even about packing it in a box and then getting a porter to take it from the house as if it was a parcel. Finally I hit upon what I considered to be a far better idea than any of these. I decided to wall it up in the cellar as did the monks of the middle ages with their victims.
 
For a purpose such as this the cellar was well adapted. Its walls were loosely constructed and had recently been plastered throughout with a rough plaster, which the dampness of the atmosphere had prevented from hardening. Moreover, in one of the walls was a projection caused by a false chimney or fireplace, that had been filled up and made to resemble the rest of the cellar. I had no doubt that I could easily displace the bricks at this point, insert the corpse, and wall the whole up as before, so that no eye could detect anything suspicious.
 
My reasoning turned out to be right. By means of a crowbar I easily dislodged the bricks, and carefully deposited the body against the inner wall.  I propped it up in that position, while with little trouble I re-built the wall as it had originally stood. Having discreetly got my hands on mortar, sand, and hair, I prepared a plaster which could not be distinguished from the old, and with this I very carefully went over the new brick-work. When I had finished I felt satisfied that all had gone well. The wall did not present the slightest appearance of having been disturbed. The rubbish on the floor was picked up with care and attention. I looked around triumphantly, and said to myself, "Well, at least I have not wasted my time and effort."
 
My next step was to look for the beast which had been the cause of all of this, for I had finally decided to put it to death. Had I been able to find it there and then, there could have been been no doubt about its fate, but it appeared that the crafty animal had been alarmed by the violence of my previous outburst, and so was declining to show its face. It is impossible to describe or even imagine the deep and blissful sense of relief resulting from the absence of that detested creature. It did not make its appearance during the night; and so for one night at least since its introduction into the house I soundly and tranquilly slept, aye, slept even with the burden of murder upon my soul!
 
The second and the third day passed, and still my tormentor had not turned up. At last I was free of it! The monster, in terror, had fled the premises forever! I would never see it again! My happiness was without limit! The guilt of my dark deed disturbed me little. Some few inquiries had been made, but these had been easily answered. Even a search had been ordered; but of course nothing was discovered. I looked upon my future peace of mind as secured.
 
On the fourth day following the murder, a police squad came unannounced to the house and once more started to rigorously investigate the premises. Secure, however, in the total concealment of the hiding place of my wife's corpse, I felt no embarrassment whatsoever. The officers bid me to accompany them in their search. They left no nook or cranny unexplored. At the end of the search, and for the third (or perhaps fourth) time, they descended into the cellar. I did not twitch a muscle. My heart beat as calmly as the heart someone innocent whilst dozing. I walked the cellar from end to end. I folded my arms over my chest, and roamed with ease about the place. The police were thoroughly satisfied, and were prepared to leave. The glee in my heart was too strong to be restrained. I was burning to say at least one word by way of triumph, and to make them doubly certain of my innocence.
 
"Gentlemen," I said at last, as the policemen were climbing the steps, "I'm glad to have allayed your suspicions. I wish you all health. By the way, gentlemen, this... this is a very well-constructed house." In the overwhelming desire to say something with ease, I scarcely knew what I was saying at all. "...and if I may say so, a very well-constructed house. These walls... are you going, gentlemen? ...these walls are solidly put together;" and here, through sheer bravado, I tapped heavily with my cane upon that very portion of the brick-work behind which stood the corpse of my late wife.
 
But may God protect and deliver me from the claws of Satan! No sooner had the reverberation of my blows sunk into silence than I was answered by a voice from within the tomb!; by an utterly abnormal cry, at first muffled and broken, like the sobbing of a child, and then quickly growing into one long, loud, and continuous scream of both horror and triumph. Such a sound could only have been explained by the combination of the wails arising from throats of sinners damned to hell joined in by the joyful shrieks of the demons exalting in their damnation.
 
It would be madness to tell you what my thoughts were at that moment. Almost fainting, I staggered to the opposite wall. Due to the combined terror and awe that they were experiencing, policemen, at first, remained motionless upon the stairs. The next instant, a dozen stout arms were pulling and pushing at the wall. It fell in one piece. The corpse, already greatly decayed and clotted with gore, stood erect before the eyes of the spectators. On its head sat the hideous one eyed beast whose craftiness had led me to murder, and whose betraying cry had consigned me to the hangman. I had walled up the monster within the tomb!