The dutch brigantine The Alkmaar, was returning from Java, loaded with spices and other precious goods.
She stopped off ((called)) at Southampton, and the sailors got their permission to go ashore.
One of them, Hendrijk Wersteeg, took off with him a monkey carried upon his right shoulder and a parrot upon his left, and, bundled with a strap, a bale of Indian fabrics that he had the intention of selling once in town, along with the animals.
It was the start of spring, and the nights were still drawing in quite early. Hendrijt Wersteeg walked at a good pace through the somewhat foggy streets that the gas lights were only just managing to illuminate. The sailor was thinking about his next return trip to Amsterdam, about his mother that he had not seen for three years, and about his fiancé who was awaiting him at Monikendam. He was trying to second guess the money that he would make out of the animals and the cloths whilst searching a shop where he could sell his exotic merchandise.
In Bar street, a well dressed gentleman approached, asking him if he was looking for a buyer for his Parrot.
"This bird," said he, "will do just fine. I need someone to talk to me without having the obligation of responding in turn. I live alone, you see."
"Follow me" said the latter. "I live quite far away. You yourself will put the parrot into the cage kept at my place. You will unbundle your fabrics and maybe I will find some of them to my taste. 
Being very content with this turn of events, Hendrijk Wersteeg went off with the gentleman, to whom, in the hope of making an extra sale, he sung the praises of his monkey, explaining that it was of a very rare race, one of those species of which the individuals resist best the English climate, and who also form the strongest bond with their master.
But, soon, Hendrijk Wersteeg ceased to speak. He was squandering his words in vain, for the stranger had not been responding at all, and seemed not even to be listening to him.
They continued their route in silence, side by side. Only the monkey and the parrot, missing their native forests in the tropics, made a sound. The monkey, scared by the mist, occasionally let forth little cries resembling the wails of a new-born child. The Parrot would beat its wings.
All of a sudden, at the end of an hours walk, the stranger said:
  
"We are getting near to my house."
 
They had left the town behind them. The route was bordered by large parks enclosed by iron railings: From time to time the light from a cottage window would shine through the trees and at intervals would be heard from afar the sinister cry of a sea bound siren 
The stranger stopped infront of the raillings and pulled from his pocket a bunch of keys, opening an iron gate that he then closed again once Hendrijk had passed the threshold. 
The sailor was impressed: He could just make out a quite attractive little villa at the end of a garden. However, the villa's closed shutters were letting no light pass through.
The silent stranger, the house without life: all this seemed rather sinister. But Hendrijk remembered that the stranger lived alone.
"He is an excentric" he thought to himself; and as a Dutch sailor would not be rich enough that one would want to lure him away for the sole purpose of robbing him, he felt shame for his little moment of anxiety.
"If you have matches, then give us some light" said the stranger whilst inserting a key into the door-lock of the house.
The sailor obeyed, and, as soon as they were inside the house, the stranger fetched a lamp, which soon lit up a tastefully furnished lounge. 
Hendrijk Wersteeg was completely reassured. He was already nurturing the hope that his strange companion would buy a good part of his fabrics from him.
The stranger, who had left the lounge, returned with a cage.
"Put your parrot in there" he said. "I will not put him on the perch myself until he is tame and knows how to say what I want him to say."
Then, after having closed the cage on the now rather frightened bird, he asked of the sailor to take the lamp and to go into the adjoining room where would be found, according to him, a table suitable for laying out the fabrics.
Hendrijk Wersteeg obeyed and went into the room which had been indicated him. Immediately after, he heard the door close behind him and the key turn. He was now a prisoner.